--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6 
 
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory End Sem Exam, Dt. 17 and 18 -May-2026, Program 
Definitions 
Focal Points :  
1. Hosting of Model is must for all the definitions in Flask, Django, Fast-API, Spring, 
NodeJS, etc. only with proper user-friendly interface. 
2. Go for maximum number of model preparation for better accuracy.  
3. A core problem definition model must not be pretrained except if mentioned in 
question below. Otherwise, it must be your wholly trained own model.  
4. For viva one must show a step-by-step breakdown of your design and 
implemented architecture, framework and algorithm. Failure to explain the nodal 
milestones means one has not understood the problem and simply used AI 
generated solution.  
5. During the viva, one must be able to explain the underlying concept used. 
Eg. if you have resolved issue using R-CNN and VGG-NET then a group must have 
indepth understanding of R-CNN and VGGNET, its working and architecture with 
justification as to why any synonymous technology is not used. 
6. Marking is RELATIVE. 
7. Viva and Presentation will start at 2:00pm 18-May-2026 in 207, 203b and 203a  
lab. All the groups for viva will come one by one as per the sequence. 
 
  
--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6 
 
PROBLEM DEFINITIONS 
1. Develop a English to Hindi transliterator. 
[Please mention source of dataset used to develop your model] 
INPUT: 
 
 
OUTPUT: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Narendra Modi Bharat ke pradhanmantri hain. Dilli mein India 
Gate sthit hai. Reliance Industries ek badi company hai. Aaj 10 
May ko mausam accha hai. Yeh ghatna 2023 mein hui thi. . 
Unhone ₹500 daan kiye. Bharat ne 2020 mein lockdown lagaya 
tha. Swatantrata Diwas 15 August ko manaya jata hai. Mere 
paas Samsung Galaxy phone hai. 
नरेंद्र मोदी भारत  के प्रधानमंत्री हैं।  ददल्ली  में इंडिया गेट स्थित है। 
ररलायंस इंिथरीज  एक बडी कंपनी है। आज 10 मई  को मौसम अच्छा 
है। यह घटना 2023  में हुई िी। उन्होंने ₹500 दान ककए। भारत  ने 
2020 में लॉकिाउन लगाया िा। थवतंत्रता ददवस 15 अगथत  को मनाया 
जाता है। मेरे पास सैमसंग  गैलेक्सी  फोन है। 
--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6 
 
2. Design an AI based Career counsellor which is highly intelligent and adaptive to 
the the answers given by student who wants career guidance to choose Engineering 
(Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Science), Science (Biology, Chemistry, 
Physics), BBA or MBA (Management). 
Eg. Imagine a student how have cleared 12th standard with General or Science stream 
approaches university for admission. The University possess an intelligent chat bot 
which ask questions to students and decides students interest and suggest the stream. 
The bot should not ask direct questions but indirect questions pertaining to the field, it 
then analyze the answer and suggest the field. The question must not be direct but 
indirect extracting valuable information from student and know the interest. 
Design and implement an Intelligent Career Counsellor Chatbot for university 
admissions. Unlike traditional rule-based bots, this system must act as a human 
interviewer, using indirect questioning to uncover a student's latent interests and 
technical aptitude. The system should analyze open-ended responses to suggest a path 
in Engineering (Civil, Mech, Elec, CSE), Pure Sciences (Bio, Chem, Phys), or 
Management (BBA/MBA). 
• Adaptive Contextual Questioning: The chatbot must not ask direct questions. Instead, 
it should use indirect inquiries. Based on the student's answer, the next question must 
pivot to dive deeper into that specific context. 
[Note : Here you are allowed to use any pre-trained model. You may use any available 
dataset] 
 
 
3. Gujarati Handwritten Mathematical equation digitization and solution. 
Design and implement a basic handwritten mathematical equation written in 
Gujarati language to digitize and calculating the answer. Please find the image 
below for your reference. Prepare, collect, or scrap a dataset of handwritten 
Gujarati numerals (૦-૯) and operators (+, -, x, ÷). 
Input:  (An image or snip taken through device camera. 
Output : ૬ x ૪ - 3 + ૨ = ૨૩   

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6 
 
4. Local vegetable variety classifier 
Develop an end-to-end AI application that can accurately classify 5 common 
vegetables.  
1. Ivy Gourd (Tindoda) 
2. Pointed Gourd (Parvad) 
3. Green Chilli (Lila Marcha) 
4. Okra / Ladies Finger (Bhinda) 
5. Peas (lila Vatana) 
The model must be robust enough to differentiate between vegetables with similar 
morphological features. The system must be tested with real object and photographic 
images. 
Eg. 
Input : 
Upload an Image or Snap through your device camera  
 
 Output : Pointed Gourd (Parvad) 
Input : 
Upload an Image or Snap through your device camera  
  
Output : Okra / Ladies Finger (Bhinda) 
 
Input : 
Upload an Image or Snap through your device camera  
 

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6 
 
  
Output : Peas (Vatana) 
 
Input : 
Upload an Image or Snap through your device camera  
 
  
Output : Green Chilli (Marcha) 
Input : 
Upload an Image or Snap through your device camera  
 
  
Output : Ivy Gourd (Tindoda) 
 
5. A software company wants to build automated resume ranking framework based 
on their job description to make the recruitment process easier, faster and more 

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6 
 
efficient. The company receives resume through email or through web forms, which 
allows upload of resume in pdf or word format. The resume is format free. The candidate 
is free to use their own format for the resume building. The intelligent system looks at 
resume one by one and ranks it according to the job description. 
[Note : Here you are allowed to use any pre-trained model. You may use any available 
dataset] 
 
 
